Picasso met the young Marie Torres
valdaire in Paris in the late 1920s he
immediately takes her as his model and
then of course as his lover by 1935
because it was finally about to divorce
his wife Olga Russian ballerina and his
lawyers told him to do so he must
discontinue the relationship with the
young Marie Trez so just after this
painting he had to leave his lover the
woman carrying his child and Picasso
ceased painting for nearly a year after
he finished this particular work
you
while this painting reflects the most
avant-garde movement of that moment
surrealism it still has echoes of his
early cubist period first part of Cuba's
is called analytic but the second
synthetic derives its name from the idea
that Picasso began with abstracted
geometric forms and synthesized build up
the image from that in this painting we
see the triangles we see the grilles we
see the pyramidal structures as the
foundation for the picture this is one
of the most carefully and deliberately
composed of Picasso's busts portraits of
Marie Torres
we see below her features the foundation
is a white triangle we see this
beautiful rounded head the lines of the
body and the space behind her way we see
full face and profile at the same time
the wonderful way the eyes detach and
float across the face and this beautiful
latticework of the background also that
green crescent moon is a reference to
her pregnancy it is a allusion to Diana
and the mythological tales of fertility
Maria Torres isn't just an object of his
passion he treats her here like a
Madonna
you